LACBC Board Meeting Minutes
===========================

February 19, 2014
6:30 PM, MALDEF Building Mezzanine

Board Present: Alex Amerri, Herbie Huff, Kevin Hopps, Carrie Ungerman, Steve Boyd, Trent Strong, Lynn Ingram (Arriving at 7:50 PM), Jim Pocras, Caryn Howard, April Economides, Lourdes Morales, Ted Rogers, Greg Laemmle (Arriving at 7:56 PM) (n=9)

Board Absent:

Staff Present: Jennifer Klausner, Eric Bruins, Shannon Muir

## Welcome, Introductions

  - Lourdes:

  - Herbie: Personnel committee

  - Kevin: Doing "stuff" around San Fernando Valley.

  - Carrie: Working with development committe on upcoming fundraiser efforts and recruiting members for donation fundraising.

  - Caryn: Helping with LB River Ride at request of JJ.  Sunday Funday ride in Carson on Sep. 7

  - April: Participating in LB River Ride, helping with LB River Ride preparations.  Talking with Colin about Operation Firefly in LB in March.  Planning to do an Operation Firefly event in every single council district next year.  Working to integrate LACBC into LB bike efforts.

  - Jim: Pocras's law firm sponsoring portion of River Ride.  Wrote a letter to city council about MANGO to promote green areas on the west side.  Sponsored and attended LA Bike Commuter summit.  Would like to speak about legal issue later in board meeting.

  - Alex: LA Caucuses, Nation Builder stuff, and more!

## Approval of Consent Agenda (6:40 PM)

- Greg had disagreed with report from development committee regarding religious policy issue.

- Kevin: Uncomfortable with way finances are reported in consent agenda.

- Alex: Does not have an MBA.

- Alex, April, Kevin, Steve: Idea to hold educational seminar on reading a P&L statement

- Kevin: Are all staff members paid at LACBC related events?

- Jen: Yes, if they are tasked with work responsibilities at the event.  We should include staff time costs in event costs and other outreach efforts.

- Alex: Motion to approve consent agenda.

- April: seconded

- Consent agenda approved unanimously.

## Adjustments to Personnel Committee Protocol (6:50 PM)

- New version of personnell committee protocol distributed.

- Alex went over notable changes to protocol, asked for review and comments.

- Steve: Motion to accept new protocol (with minor typographical fixes)

- Lourdes: Seconded.

- Approved unanimously.

## Review of Local Chapter Rules (7:05 PM)

- Eric:  We have three chapters to review: Downey, Montebello, University of Southern California

- Eric: Gave a brief account of local chapter history and bylaws amendment for new board members.

- Eric: Recommended approval of local chapter rules (they use template with no amendments).

- April: Inquired about possibility of starting chapter with LA Trade Tech.

- Eric: Possible.  We also have other chapters waiting to finalize and be approved.

- April: Emphasized opportunity with Trade Tech since it represents low income demographic as opposed to larger universities.

- Jim: Requested clarification on whether board should reach out to organizations / municipalities to partner with LACBC.

- Multiple board members: It's acceptable, but preferable to work with staff.

- Alex: Brief explanation of local chapter program purpose.

- Eric: Three new chapters upcoming, which are coming in with more assets than other chapters.  Board was presented new language for Local Chapter Rules Article 8 that protects assets of local chapter in event of local chapter dissolution.

- Alex: Will an itemized asset list be provided by local chapters upon formation?

- Steve: Local chapters should itemize assets and provide balance sheet.

- Jen: Assets are mostly already accounted for in LACBC balance sheet.  Upon formation executive director should itemize and note assets.

- April: What if an existing organization that operates completely outside of LACBC desires to become a local chapter?

- Jen: They would provide their own balance sheet.

- Herbie: Candidate local chapters have expressed irritation with multiple iterations of Local Chapter Rules Article 8 and desire to move forward soon.

- Eric: Current iteration is result of working closely with those chapters.

- Ted: Moved to approve Downey Local Chapter Rules
  Steve: Seconded.
  Board: Approved unanimously.

- Ted: Moved to approve Montebello Local Chapter Rules
  Steve: Seconded.
  Board: Approved unanimously

- Steve: Does Article 2 of USC Local Chapter Rules mention of local communities cause alarm?

- Eric: USC will not benefit from default local chapter assignment since USC does not have its own geographic region.  We rely on people to self identify as USC students.

- Lourdes: Motion to approve USC Local Chapter Rules.
  Ted: Seconded.
  Board: Approved unanimously.

- Alex: Any other comments regarding Local Chapter Rules Article 8?

- Steve: (To Eric) As it stands, how do you feel about the current queue of local chapter applications?

- Lourdes: Motion to approve Local Chapter Rules Article 8.
  April: Seconded.
  Board: Approved unanimously.

## Formation of Ad-Hoc Committee on Policies of Association (7:40 PM)

- Alex: Brief background on event that benefits LACBC organized by individual involed in hit-and-run accident.  Ride starts on property of a religious organization (Church of Scientology) and organizer intends to include a publication associated with Church of Scientology in gift bag distributed at event.  Some members of development committee brought up the potential issue that it may appear that LACBC is somehow affiliated or partnered with Church of Scientology.

- Alex: Request for ad-hoc policy committee to discuss and propose policy for assocation / affiliation with external organizations rather than dealing with this issue as an isolated incident.  Decision should be made before April 1, 2014.

- Jen: Intent of policy should be to protect LACBC and defend public perception of LACBC associates.

- Lourdes: Recommendation to include LACBC material in bag that is explicit about LACBC non-affiliation with event organizer.

- April: Should look to other precedence from other non-profit organizations on this specific policy, but policy should be non-discriminatory by default with ability to handle exceptions on a case basis.

- Carrie: Requested clarification on whether event finish is also on church property. (Yes)

- Steve: Volunteered to serve on ad-hoc policy committee.

- Ted: Open to being on committee.

- Carrie: Request clarification on how we are listed on event materials. (Fiscal sponsor, provider of ride services)

- Greg: Request clarification on current status of issue: whether pamphlet is in bag. (It is.)

- Greg: Expressed view that though we are not event organizer, there will be perception amongst attendees that we are and could mistake our affiliation with religious organization.

- April: Support for Lourdes's recommendation.

- Herbie: Express view that LACBC has historically been a "big tent" organization, and should continue to operate as such.  Suggestion to frame policy conversation as "ways and means".

- Greg: Volunteered to join policy committee.

- April: Expectation for committee should be to base decision on existing evidence.

- Jen: Volunteered to serve on committee.

- April: Volunteer to serve on committee (expectation of a single meeting).

- Shannon: Volunteer to serve on committee.

## Brief Review of Survey Results, Board Member Meetings (8:12 PM)

- Alex: Most people are looking to sponsor two people for "Give" requirements.  None so far are willing or able to move membership level to $250.

- Alex: Most board members are willing to provide most "Get" items.

- Alex: Strong amount of volunteering and committee involvement.  Gap in referring new board members.

- April: Expressed opinion that we have a strong list of potential board candidates.

- Greg: We may need to consider the ability to recruit further board members in potential board candidates.

- Steve: Board candidate selection should reflect trajectory of organization and should attempt to lead it.  Expressed opinion that current board has identity crisis in terms of what qualities board should possess that should drive new board member selection.

## Donor Dinner Fundraiser Discussion (8:22 PM)

- Greg: There has been a suggestion to have a board led dinner fundraiser.  Survey was sent to board and 6 responded by Feb. 19 2PM.

- Lourdes: Most people are in favor.  Most respondents prefer a restaurant for location.  Respondents were in favor of purchasing tickets for themselves and another, but only 4 responded they would commit to fill a table or ten plates.

- Lourdes: Location will dictate pricing for tickets.  Respondents desired dinner to relate to existing event or act as a new event.

- Lourdes: Based on results, recommendation to associate dinner with Operation Firefly.

- Ted: Requested clarification on difference from City of Lights awards ball.

- Lourdes: Branding will be specific to LACBC.

- Lourdes: Request for show of hands in favor of dinner event in August or September.

- April: Expressed support for ticketed dinner.  Posed question as to whether we should provide a secondary, cheaper option for those who just want to attend party and not dinner.  In addition, express desire to be careful of staff load.

- Greg: Board expectations to write checks, invite people, and responsible for overall success of dinner.  Staff should only be responsible for administrative tasks.

- Alex: Board has been criticized for lack of success in previous fundraising efforts, this event should present the opportunity for board to succeed.

- Lynn: Event should be attractive to those who could provide significant fundraising for LACBC.

- April: LACBC should consider suggestion to for a low priced event.

- Alex: LACBC does not currently have a high end dinner event, so should focus on it as highest priority donor event.

- Greg: Dinner is not for members, but for honorees and solely to gather fundraising from those who would not normally associate with LACBC events.

- Alex: Request for Greg and Lourdes to sent message to board list requesting assistance in planning dinner.

## Marketing Discussion for LACBC (Skipped due to time constraints)

## Closed Session (8:45 PM)
